.TH RUDIAL "1" "" "russ 2.10" ""
.SH NAME
rudial, ruexec, ruhelp, ruls \- Client-side tools for accessing russ servers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rudial
.RB [<option>]
.I "<op> <spath> [<arg> ...]"

.B ruexec
.RB [<option>]
.I "<spath> [<arg> ...]"

.B ruhelp
.RB [<option>]
.I "<spath> [<arg> ...]"

.B ruls
.RB [<option>]
.I "<spath> [<arg> ...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These client-side tools are used to dial (connect to) a russ
serivce. When connected to a russ service, file descriptors
are returned, corresponding to stdin, stdout, stderr of the
service, and can be used as usual. (Note that the file descriptors
returned depends on the service.)

.PP
The standard exit code mechanism functions as usual and, in most
cases, is returned by the service. Common exit codes are 0 for
success, 1 for error. When there is a problem with the dial step,
and exit code of 126 or 127 may be returned.

.PP
Options:
.TP
.B -a|--attr <name=value>
Pass a "name=value" string to the service.

.TP
.B -b <bufsize>
Set the buffer size for reading and writing operations.

.TP
.B -t|--timeout <seconds>
Allow given amount of time to dial before aborting and returning an
error exit code.

.PP
rudial is the generic form and takes a russ operation (<op>):
.TP
execute
Execute the service <spath> on behalf of the client user.

.TP
help
Return help for the server or service associated with the <spath>.

.TP
list
Return a list of services at the <spath>.

.PP
The service path <spath> identifies a service as found in the
service hierarchy of a russ server.

.SS Helper Programs
.PP
To reduce verbosity of the rudial call, some helper programs are provided.
All but ruls are direct replacements.

.PP
ruexec is equivalent to "rudial execute".

.PP
ruhelp is equivalent to "rudial help".

.PP
ruls is equivalent to "rudial list" except when the <spath> is a
local filesystem object (e.g., directory). In such a case, a
modified directory listing is output. This is helpful when
navigating the filesystem and russ services.

.SH SEE ALSO
russ(7)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by John Marshall.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to: <...>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 John Marshall.
.br
Unless otherwise indicated, this software is available under the
terms of the 
ls
Apache License version 2.