.TH RUSTART "1" "" "russ 5.x" ""
.SH NAME
rustart \- Start a RUSS server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rustart
.RB [<option>]
.I "(-f <path>|-c <name>=<value>) [...] [-- ...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
rustart starts a RUSS server. The configuration file and settings
are used to set up a socket file, start the server, and pass it a
listener socket, and otherwise set things up. Arguments after the
-- are passed to the server untouched.

.PP
Where:
.TP
.B -c <name>=<value>
Set an attribute. The name is composed of a section name and an
attribute name separated by a ":" (e.g., server:addr=+/debug).

.TP
.B -f <path>
Load a configuration file.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The configuration file uses an INI-style with multiple sections
containing simple name=value attributes.

Only the server section is used by rustart. Supported attributes
are:

.SS Basic Server Sectin Attributes

.TP
.B addr=<address>
Path to the socket file. RUSS-specific aliases such as + and ++
are supported.

.TP
.B file_group=gid|groupname
Group ownership for the socket file. Default is to use the gid of
the user calling rustart.

.TP
.B file_mode=<mode>
File mode for the socket file. Octal mode values must be preceded
by 0 (e.g., 0700).

.TP
.B file_user=uid|username
User ownership for the socket file. Default is to use the uid of
the user calling rustart.

.TP
.B group=gid|groupname
The group under which the server should run. Default is that of the
calling user. Be very careful.

.TP
.B path=<server path>
Path to the server executable to be started.

.TP
.B user=uid|username
The user under which the server should run. Default is that of the
calling user. Be very careful.

.SS Other Server Section Attributes

.TP
.B hide_conf=0|1
If hide_conf is defined and 1, the configuration file and settings
provided to rustart will _not_ be passed to the server. This is
useful when the server does not use the conf file to configure
itself (or uses a different kind, not supported/known by rustart).
The default is 0 (pass the conf file and settings).

.SH EXAMPLE

.PP
The debug.conf file typically looks like:

.RS
.nf
[server]
path=/usr/bin/rusrv_debug
addr=+/debug
file_mode=0777
.fi
.RE

.PP
Depending on the server, additional sections may be used/required.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by John Marshall.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to: <...>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 John Marshall.
.br
Unless otherwise indicated, this software is available under the
terms of the 
ls
Apache License version 2.