.TH RUSS "7" "" "russ 3.x" ""
.SH NAME
russ \- Service-oriented servers, tools, and library

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
russ is a set of programs, servers, and library built around the
design of hierarchically organized services with exec()-like
semantics. That is, services are accesible using a /-separated
path, a variable length list of arguments (like argv), and a
variable length list of name=value settings (like envp). Once
connectioned, communication between the client and server is
carried out over standard streams (e.g., pipe) corresponding
to stdin, stdout, stderr and possibly more. At termination,
services return an exit value which may be waited on.

.PP
Servers provide a collection of services organized along the lines
of, but not identical to, a filesystem: directories/folders and
files. This allows for service organization and discoverability.
Operations (help, list, execute) may be performed on each service.
In the general case, the contents of "directories" can be listed;
"directories" and "files" can be executed. Help can be obtained
for available services.

.PP
Command line tools are available to "dial" the services.
.B rudial
is the general tool for accessing services. It allows for any
kind of operation to be requested. Other tools like
.B ruhelp
,
.B ruls
, and
.B ruexec
are helpers which, for the most part, correspond to using
.B rudial
for the help, list, and execute operations.

.PP
Servers and tools may be developed using the russ library (C and
Python APIs).

.PP
Refer to the individual manual pages for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
rudial(1), ruexec(1), ruhelp(1), ruls(1), rustart(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by John Marshall.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to: <...>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 John Marshall.
.br
Unless otherwise indicated, this software is available under the
terms of the 
ls
Apache License version 2.